#summary How to install the norma africa virtual machines for client and server

= Introduction =

This page documents the setting up activities for Norma server and the Norma virtual machines.

== Installing VMware workstation == 

*Pre-requisities* - a build environment. You can install the ubuntu build-essential package, by running the following in a terminal window :
{{{
sudo apt-get install build-essential
}}}

 * Open a terminal window, and extract the vmware workstation archive (`tar xvf vmware*.tar.gz`)
 * Change directory to the extracted vmware folder
 * Run the vmware installer :
{{{ 
sudo vmware-install.pl
}}}
 * Use the default settings to install vmware

== Configuring VMware == 

 * After the installation has finished, configure the vmware installation using the command:
{{{ 
sudo vmware-config.pl
}}}

 * Use the default suggestions, say "Yes" to both "Bridged networking" and "NAT networking".  Say "No" for "Host networking".

 * The configurator will compile the required drivers, and finish.

== Running the NormaServer virtual machine for the first time == 

 # Extract the compressed virtual machine archive. The archive uses 7zip. To install 7zip use the following command :
{{{
sudo apt-get install p7zip-full
}}}
 # After this you can extract the virtual machine from the archive using the command :
{{{
7z -e <7zip-archive-file-name-of-virtual-machine>
}}}
 # Launch vmware workstation, go to File->Open and browse to the folder with the extracted virtual machine, and open the file called Ubuntu-jeos.vmx.
 # Click "Edit virtual machine settings" , and ensure that "Ethernet" has been set to "NAT"
 # CLick "Startup this guest operating system" to launch the virtual machine. Vmware will prompt you with a question - have you "moved" or "copied" the virtual machine ? Select copied.
 # The virtual machine will now boot and after the bootup process present you with a Ubuntu login prompt
 # log in with user name: undesa, password: undesa
 # run `ifconfig` and note down the ip address assigned to eth0

== Configuring NAT == 

 # To access the virtual machine from an external computer, you need to enabled NAT forwarding.
 # To do this,run :
{{{
 gksudo gedit  /etc/vmware/vmnet8/nat/nat.conf
}}}
 # Scroll down to the section titled [incomingtcp], the contents of which should like this:
{{{
[incomingtcp]
# Use these with care - anyone can enter into your VM through these...

# FTP (both active and passive FTP is always enabled)
#      ftp localhost 8887
#8887 = 192.168.221.128:21

# WEB (make sure that if you are using named webhosting, names point to
#     your host, not to guest... And if you are forwarding port other
#     than 80 make sure that your server copes with mismatched port 
#     number in Host: header)
#      lynx http://localhost:8888
#BUNGENI - uncomment the line below
#8888 = 192.168.221.129:8080  

# SSH
#      ssh -p 8889 root@localhost
#8889 = 192.168.221.128:22
}}}
 # uncomment the line indicated above, and change the ip address to the one you had noted down in step 8 of the previous section:
{{{
8888 = ip-noted-down-in-step-8:8080
}}}
 # save the file and restart the computer 
 # the virtual machine should now be accessible from any computer on the network by browsing to : http://host-ip:8888 from a web browser.